i worked
myself
so hard
that i turned
a person this [__] up
into this [__] right here not
off of reading a [__] book off a
theorist
off of going to work on myself and
saying i don't know how to do this
but i know that to get over there that
[__] side
i gotta grind myself into a [__] fine
power
and i did it
hey everybody welcome to impact theory
our goal with this show and company is
to introduce you to the people and ideas
that will help you actually execute on
your dreams all right today's guest is
widely recognized as the toughest man
alive the only member of the u.s armed
forces to complete seal training the u.s
army ranger school where he graduated as
enlisted honor man and the air force
tactical air controller training he
entered bud's hell week three times in
one year completing it twice despite a
seriously damaged knee multiple stress
fractures and a hernia he served in
combat in iraq was the bodyguard for the
iraqi prime minister completed an ultra
marathon with pneumonia and once held
the guinness world record for most
pull-ups in 24 hours with 4030.
all in all he's completed over 60
endurance and ultra endurance events
often winning or at least placing in the
top five and when he was asked how he's
been able to accomplish so much he says
simply that he hated what he saw in the
mirror enough to make a change
having grown up bullied and abused both
physically and mentally by the time he
graduated high school he was by his own
admission broken and weak but instead of
accepting that he turned inward stop
saying woe is me and got to work
becoming the man he wanted to be to do
that he learned to embrace suffering and
leverage pain as a way to toughen his
mind and the resulting man that he has
become and his indomitable spirit has so
inspired the world that he has become
the one that be driven among us hang on
their mirrors as a reminder of just how
much is possible as iconic nfl coach
pete carroll said in my pursuit to
understand and learn from the greatest
competitors in the world he is the one
that sets the standard
so please help me in welcoming the man
who once ran 205 miles in 39 hours
without stopping the author of can't
hurt me the legend himself
david goggins
welcome back thank you thank you
so
i am beyond excited to be doing the
second go-round with you the first one
for me was utterly transformational just
researching you and the way that your
mind works
i'm really i mean as evidenced by the
show that i'm wearing i really am that
guy that like put your picture up and it
was just became this reminder of
of what we can all do if we're willing
to push past that pain and all of that
right but speaking of pain i want to
know why is the book called can't hurt
me
there's some
i guess some inside [__] use to people
in there
but it's an overall message to people
that
we're all you know a lot of us are going
through a hard time in life some people
have been bullied some people are just
stressed out some people are insecure
some people are fat and overweight and
the world puts a lot of this [__] in
your mind
it's not just you yeah you help it
and my whole thing is about i had to
develop a mindset
a mindset that was indestructible i had
to armor plate my mind
and it's about what you're saying to
yourself but it also comes at work
so whenever i was getting beat down
physically mentally spiritually whatever
i was going through
just saying you know i would put you
know you can't hurt me can't hurt me
just became a message i you know i would
say to myself
and that's just kind of where it comes
from
what i find so interesting is your
concept of the governor that basically
out of the chills that an expert is
somebody who's going to tell you
what your limits are rather than the
person that's out there practicing
getting you beyond the limit so what is
the governor and how do we strip it out
of our lives i believe that most human
beings are only living at about 40
of their capability
so
the mine has a governor like a car if
you're driving a car and the car has a
governor on it the car may say 130 miles
an hour but the governor set for 91.
once that governor sets in you get to 91
that car starts doing this the car wants
to go the car wants to go but that
[__] factory said uh-uh we're not
going past 91
we have a factory a nice governor in our
brain and it's a survival mechanism it
protects us from pain and suffering the
second we feel that [__] our mind says
oh no this isn't fun
we should back off we should sit down
find something more comfortable and
there's something about the mind the
mind has the tactical advantage over you
at all times
at all times of your life
the mind has a tactical advantage over
you why is that it knows what you're
afraid of it knows your insecurities it
knows your deep dark lies and it starts
to push you away from that [__] it
pushes you in a direction that is
comfortable
the mind
controls everything so what i realized
was that when i was growing up and i was
300 pounds and i got all fat and i got
all insecure
i realized that my mind kept taking me
in this direction when things got
uncomfortable for me when i was facing
my insecurities i was facing my fears my
mind said oh no we have the tactical
advantage we need to get you separate
you from this feeling this feeling over
your life's all about feelings we want
the happy feeling we don't want that
feeling of this sucks
why am i here and you don't have any
so you can't answer those questions so
you leave
i started realizing that if in that
moment
you can answer those [__] up questions
and you are now in charge of your brain
versus your brain ruling you
that's where all that stuff comes from
so so the 40 rule is all of that you get
to 40
your brain says we're done let's roll
man this is starting to get painful this
is uncomfortable so you sit down
you have to figure out ways and
everybody's different that's how the
book kind of talks about like we all
have these things about you know
five steps to this and four steps to
this it's it's a lot more than that
that's all [__]
it's it's a practice that you have to
it's a habit
so if you know that at 40 i'm still you
know i'm feeling pain at 40 i'm feeling
pain that's where the 40 rule kicks in
now it starts okay i'm feeling pain my
mind's saying all this [__] to me is
saying get out of here run flee the
fight or flight kicks in okay we're done
we're not good enough it starts telling
you all these things you start to
believe it because the mind controls all
this is the time where you have to gain
control back of your mind
it's okay let me see if i can go 45
and once you start giving yourself more
and more hope and start realizing okay
the mind starts to be okay what are you
doing we're supposed to be going right
and you're going left
you start then controlling your mind
start finding more in you know in
yourself and it goes from 40 to a lot
further than that but that's the start
of it though get to get to the spot
where your mind is saying stop
wherever that is gotta get there first
and then that's when that [__] starts to
work for you you gotta control yourself
in that moment
dude we're gonna try to thread a really
powerful needle right now so your
response to all of that has been so
incredible so
all right mind has a governor it starts
to kick in when you hit pain you're
looking for areas of comfort
most people then live their entire lives
there they never try to get out of it
but you had such a fascinating response
you said two things which i think need
to be explored one is that you created
this alter ego goggins
which i think is insanely powerful and
it reminds me of eminem talked about the
same thing with creating slim shady was
it was the way he once he had the
persona he could face his fears and he
could get up um and then the other thing
was you said you need to shut the [__]
up and listen but talking about just to
yourself like not to try to get a
distraction not social media not tv
nothing like go in a room by yourself
and really listen
how do those two things the the creation
of the alter ego and that listening to
the the sort of dark hateful things that
you're probably saying to yourself how
do those work together so a lot of
people can live with themselves
that's the first thing a lot of people
can live with themselves look in the
mirror and say i'm okay with being
afraid
i'm okay with going on this easy highway
over here the easy highway has all these
[__] signs and [__] directions how to
get somewhere
and you have to first be uncomfortable
with how you feel about yourself with
that voice that a lot of us like to run
away from we all have it we all have
that voice to say hey man you know
you're you're kind of wimping out right
now you're kind of being a little punk
right now but a lot of us say okay
that's okay
it's okay to tell these little white
lies to ourselves so we first have to
face
the real you
the real me is david goggins the real me
is a guy looking at you right now saying
i don't want to [__] be on this show
right now because i used to stutter as a
kid and i'm afraid of that i'm afraid
that here in a second i'm gonna start
[__] stammering and stuttering and
the whole world's gonna know that i have
all these issues
but that's when i see right now okay
goggins you gotta go on this [__]
show that's goggins
goggins is saying okay david goggins
you're a punk life made you this way we
can't live like this we can't live in
fear we can't live in judgment
we can't be afraid of what the [__]
people right now are looking at me
saying about me we cannot be afraid of
that
that's goggins
goggin's saying [__] all of you who
don't like me who don't want to and that
person then comes in
but you have to be david goggins and say
man i'm afraid of this i'm [__] up
here
life made me this way here i stutter i i
have these issues with with uh reading
and writing and
and i'm i'm fat and i'm insecure
you have to face that in that dark room
in that dark room is who you are
but in that dark room is where you have
to create
another human being that walks out of
that dark room
to face who you are
that's the only way you're going to get
over
all those things you have to create
someone else
not like you have two different
personalities it is you
but you have to find strength and that
visualization of almost me
cracking out goggins like almost like
that superman cape like i'm coming out a
different person a person that doesn't
give a [__] about anything who doesn't
care about being judged who knows i'm
weak who knows i'm afraid who says
whatever you think about me take it
whatever i'm here
that's goggins
in the dark room you face yourself you
realize you want to be better you
realize you don't want to be this weak
insecure person in the world who has all
these problems that we all have
we all have social media is a great
platform to tell you who we want to be
not who we are so that's where that dark
room is
i didn't know if you were going to be
able to surprise me today because i i
know you so well from sitting across
from you from researching you as much as
i have but i just really got emotional
as you were going through that because
it's so tempting to make you
extraordinary as a way to not have to
live up to your standard like even now
and i don't do it on purpose
because i know better than that and i
want to be extraordinary myself but even
i like i find myself getting caught up
in that and hearing you just now talk
about
still being nervous that you're gonna
start stammering like if if people
really hear that
you're the way that you are now not
because you pretend like you don't have
those things but because you face them
so fully
and that you're able to like look at
that be accountable and and talk so raw
to yourself
like dude that's when like again i have
the [__] chills because
when you think about what your
what any of us are going to be able to
achieve in our lives it's because we
finally get willing to look in the
mirror and say you're dumb you're fat
and i know right now people are freaking
out when they hear me say that
but talk to me about raw talk talk to me
about how you started talking to
yourself in the mirror because if they
get this david like this is the
transformational moment so in my book i
talk about a lot
is my junior year in high school
and i fell back a lot i fell back in
this [__] whole of life the second
you think that you've overcome it you
climbed everest you're on that last hold
and life will say
not today [__]
and it'll push you down
and my junior year in high school i uh
missed a whole bunch of school
was lying to my mom had like a one point
something gpa i was just jacked up i
mean it was i was in one one of the
worst spots in my life
and my mom was going with a lot of [__]
too and she didn't have time to sit back
and baby me
and it was me against me
my parents were down to my knees i was
just i was not whatever was going on i
wasn't in bad shape so i went to the
bathroom and i had this weird haircut
because i wanted attention
i was an attention getter i went to all
white school pretty much
some of the kids liked me a lot of them
didn't like me whatever didn't [__]
matter i was looking for something so i
was dressed differently crazy haircuts
and i went to the mirror
and
the reflection in it revealed
a lot of bad things
a lot of things that i was hiding behind
the saggy pants and i'm looking at
myself in the mirror going like god dawg
dude you gotta you are something else
man like you have created a character i
want to be the cool guy table
and whatever i could do to to get
attention i did
it wasn't me it wasn't who i was inside
but i was scared for anybody to know who
i was inside
so in that accountability mirror i call
it i got real myself
i said
you have a third grade reading level
which is hard to admit when you're a
junior in high school that you copied on
every single thing you did because
of fear they're gonna put me in a
special school we all know what special
means i'm gonna have a title on myself
the rest of my life
and being cool you don't have a title on
yourself so i started cheating
i was dumb and people say oh you know
you're a learning disability
out of learning disability but i
realized i was lazy
so
um i called myself out there
i called myself out every which way
possible i didn't call myself i was just
honest
i was honest look at yourself man
look at yourself and it was that day
in a couple of days after that i just
got real with myself and every day i
came home i called the accountability
mirror what am i going to do today to
change what i see in this mirror
what am i going to do today and a lot of
it was i stopped sitting with the cool
guys
i actually took my shirt and went to
school looking like hey man this i'm
gonna look if you don't like it so be it
i had to really wear this this
this layer of skin
i had to develop a really callous skin
on me to take whatever you're gonna call
me you're gonna call me whatever i'm
going to be you know i want a geek but
whoever i am you're going to see me
you're going to see me for who i am
because i need to change who i'm not
and that accountability just became raw
and i became fat over the years because
i fell back in the hole i called myself
fat because i was fat and people don't
want to do that
they want to say oh don't call yourself
fat don't call yourself dumb if you're
not real and wrong with who the [__] you
are
nothing's going to change and in this
nice new world that we live in we want
to hear you're just a little big no man
you might be fat
and it's okay to hear that from yourself
infamous so that's where it started at
and it's raw it gets ugly sometimes with
me in that mirror
but i'm also proud of myself to be able
to tell myself that and then fix what's
in that mirror that that's what hits me
and that's what i really want people to
hear is that
you can say those things a because
they're true and b because you can fix
them right and your whole life has been
about addressing those things so
walk us through how in the book
do you help people
start addressing it because that's what
i think so powerful about your book so
the first thing about it is once you
realize it and you have to realize you
got to call yourself out addressing it
is very small it's like it doesn't go
from like one morning um this way next
time i wake up and presto the you know
five steps to greatness no
it ain't that brother you read my book
this is hard work it's every day like
right now
i had to be honest with you man
i'm even shaking right now being on this
show i'm a big time introvert
how you address it is you face it
you face it every day you face it every
single day of your life
where you say okay like if you're fat
you need to lose weight
it's patience
it's patience in this fact of accepting
who you are right now i'm fat i don't
like myself
except in fact if you lose three or four
pounds
that's a huge accomplishment
you have to live in your own [__]
world you cannot judge yourself that's
why social media all these things are
horrible you can't judge yourself off of
the so-called competition that we have
made up in our mind
the things that how people look how
people act how smart someone is this is
a race that you run completely alone
and you're all by yourself i had tons of
sticky notes all over my mirror it
wasn't like be better than john or be as
fast as whoever okay david yesterday you
did this today our next goal for the
week is this
so i had a year goal
weekly goals daily goals hourly goals
and the big goal was i lied a lot
growing up
i wanted to be accepted
one goal was let's go one day without
lying
let's go one day and then when i would
lie to somebody i would say hey man
now go i had to go back now and
apologize hey man i lied to you you know
hard it is to go back somebody say i
lied to you
hey man you know what back there i lied
to you dude i was really jacked up so i
figured out these ways of total total
accountability like right now
i had to run this morning before i talk
to you because why
that's what i'm about
i'm about mind mad body fitness
a lot of folks talk so much [__]
about hey i'm gonna change your life i'm
gonna do so i'm gonna do that
are you accountable for what you're
doing are you accountable and i mean to
the t
for what you're saying
i am and that's where it started it
started with that total total
accountability of let's not lie today
let's tell people the truth about who
you are and when you can get on and tell
someone like i'm doing right now exactly
how [__] up you are
that's the goal in life
to put your life on a billboard on the
busiest road in the busiest highway in
the world and say
this is how [__] up i used to be
take it or leave it the first time we
talked i didn't really understand um
why the um
being called a niger on your book and
you said that was one of the best things
that ever happened to me because the
principal told me oh they're just
ignorant
and you said that in that moment i
realized nobody was coming to save me
and it hit me right i didn't really
understand until i read the book and
in reading the book really understanding
how
one thing after another from the abuse
from your father to fleeing that to
your mom being m.i.a and then thinking
she's finally found love and then the
[__] guy gets murdered the day after
christmas i was like did that
really no one came to save you no and
seeing that now and hearing you tell
these stories i realize like that's the
crux of the power
but how did you stop feeling sorry for
yourself
when you really sit back at your life
and you in that dark room
and you're looking at where you started
from
and you tell yourself
god dawg man my mom is this way my
stepdad got murdered my dad beat the
[__] out of me
i can't read and write to say my [__]
soul i've lied about it to everybody
i've cheated on all these tests
my god man
and then you put a goal
in your mind
how are you gonna feel man when you
accomplish this goal coming from that
[__]
coming from the [__] hell you came
from
a lot of people start from a good
starting point they have a good
foundation what if you can surpass all
these [__]
we have everybody who was [__] way up
here
started up here and you had you started
with no legs you had to grow [__]
legs to even start walking and then
crawling and then running and then you
start passing people and all that's
given to them
i had to use all this negative [__] that
was making me weak and horrible as a
person
i had to use this as the power that now
fueled me had to flip it on his head and
say hold up
this might be exactly what i need
the darkness is exactly what i need it's
how you look at your situation
and i was looking at it all [__] up
in the book you tell people to make a
list
of everything working against them every
real valid excuse right why do you have
them do that
there's a lot of power in that list
so
in that list of
who you are what makes you [__] up all
these other things it goes back to once
again
accepting
you have to first accept it before you
can fix it
a lot of people walk around oh man i'm
good
i'm good
no you're not
you have to accept what you're not
you have to and people don't want to do
that
and that's the only way you can fix it
you have to accept it first before you
can go on the journey a lot of folks
never even start the journey man
they never start to join because they
live in this fake life
that who they want to be they act like
they are but they're not because they
haven't fixed all this stuff yet
you got to fix this first before we can
start our journey in life so that's why
i haven't make this list you fix these
problems now your journey can begin
because you no longer care about how
people are judging you when when you
care more about how someone's judging
you you're going to stay right there
there's no forward momentum
so that's that's the thing about that
list all right speaking of
making that list accepting where you're
at so that you can address it
in the book you talk about like what the
things are that you're going to be doing
you're going to be putting the list
together how do people go about using i
don't know if it's the accountability
mirror how do they go about addressing
each of those issues okay
so
let's say the first one is
you're not the smartest person in school
i had that issue
so my big thing was how i addressed that
problem was
i had to sit down
each thing that is wrong with you has to
be a focal point
you can't look at this gigantic list and
say i gotta change all this [__] my god
this is crazy
no
you take off the first one i want to be
smarter for me that was my thing i have
to i have to become more intelligent
i have such a severe learning disability
i can't retain [__]
i had to now get that one thing
and then strategize in that one problem
how can i do this i'm not gonna learn
like you i'm not gonna learn like
anybody else how am i gonna figure this
out so i then figured out okay
where are my strengths here where my
weaknesses in learning all right man
how am i going to do this and i figured
out
a way to do it
but it's strategizing so how i learn
to this day
if i have a big manual to study
i will have to get a bunch of spiral
notebooks
from the from the daggone store
and each page
i have to write each page out maybe 10
times
so there was a thousand page dive manual
that i got 18 months before i went to
dive school
most people
i'm not smart i'm gonna go see if i can
pass this test i realized hang on a
second i'm not smart
how can i get past this how can i get
through this obstacle i need to get i
need to acquire this book 18 months in
advance because it could take me 18
months to write down
each page over and over again to then
put it to memory so when the question
came up
i had written that question so many
times down in that in on you know on
paper that i can recall okay page 71 was
where i remember seeing this
and i can recall it that way and that's
how i did it so you got to strategize on
each problem you have in life
slowly break down that problem don't
think about all the problems you have
just one at a time
and before you know it you fix all these
problems but you cannot focus on all of
them just on the one thing at a time
there's a concept in your book that
permeates the whole book and i think
really is one of the most important
things for people to understand in their
own life certainly to understand you and
it's the notion of detesting mediocrity
talk to me about that how do you how did
you instill it in your life how can
other people instill it in theirs it's
one of the biggest things in the world a
lot of us mediocrity is everywhere right
now and we're all trying to find an easy
way out and we're judging ourselves
let's say there's 10 people in this room
and we're all mediocre
but i'm the best
of the mediocre people
i now think i'm great
i'm great we surround ourselves around
people that make us feel great they tell
us what we want to hear the second we
put ourselves amongst the uncommon
people
we don't like that feeling
that challenge and feeling that of of
that person's breakup at 3 30 in the
morning hey push your [__] on we're
going for a run we don't like that
challenge we like that person who says
hey you know what man i don't feel good
today man and they say oh it's okay
brother we'll take a day off maybe we'll
get a pizza and [__] watch the game we
like that we we love that feeling why
because you understand man we're good
bro
we don't want that [__] like
this hey man no bro get your [__]
[__] on man stop being a punk
we don't want that in our lives we don't
want that person who's constantly
challenging our weaknesses
we want that process constantly you know
making us feel nice and good and secure
in ours that's the mediocrity of life
we want to be the best amongst the
average people
people wonder how do you stay
hungry all the time
because after i accomplish something
i don't sit back like a lot of guys who
graduate buzz graduate this graduate
that they get comfortable they wonder
why i'm getting weak man i don't know i
lost my edge what's going on because
once you hit the top of the [__]
mountain guess what happened
i'm good
i'm good so you wonder why you're
falling down now because once you be top
of the mountain you gotta build a
[__] another one that's mediocrity
there's a lot of people in mediocrity
who have a nice resume
but they're one-timers man they hit they
hit a one-time deal they busted it open
got a lot of money but they're good
you're mediocre now man
what are you [__] doing today
tomorrow the next [__] day that's why
i'm listening to theorists i don't
listen all that [__] i listen to a
[__] who's like this man
what's wrong man i'm [__] tired dude
why are you tired because tomorrow
i gotta do the [__] [__] again man
whatever the [__] is that made me
[__] nauseous and sick to my stomach
it made me hurt
there's no ending
and that's the person i listen to
that's the person who's gained knowledge
you gain knowledge through suffering
and on the other end of suffering
is a world that very few
very few have ever seen it's a beautiful
world because that's where you find
yourself
you don't find yourself in over here
you find yourself on the other end like
the 100 mile race i was on i ran it for
24 hours
i found myself
on the other end of that [__] race
that 19 hours i found wow there's a
whole nother [__] world out here that
never even saw that the world is in your
mind
and that's what all that mediocrity is
about mediocre is contagious
talk to me about not getting civilized
not giving civilized is about having a
savage mentality
civilized is something where people um
it's it's a comfortable world
a lot of us say you know like for
instance i see these athletes right now
who retire
you know i'm 38 you know i'm 39 i did 20
years at the top of my game and i'm
chilling out now you see them a year
later and how they look
what the hell just happened to you dude
what the hell you're one of the greatest
athletes of all time
kids looked up to you women men of all
ages looked up to you
and they hit the pinnacle where it's
time to retire and their mind says
i'm civilized the worst thing that could
ever happen to any human being
is they become civilized it's that total
accountability like even when you retire
there's a [__] looking at me and
judging me right now man
i'm i was the baddest person to ever
live
it doesn't go away man
you gotta wake up even though you
retired you're never retired
you're setting the example every single
day of your life
and being civilized feels so good i'm
sorry man
once you get to the top
you may retire but you ain't never
coming back home man because now you're
judged
people see you falling off
you want to be that guy who knows i may
be retired from the sport or forever i
did
but i'd be damned
if you ever see me looking like [__]
feeling like [__] not arriving
people i've arrived
i've arrived mentality you're always
setting the example civilization feels
so good
these comfortable feelings are what
people want they want retirement
they want that they need that they it's
a it's a yearning feeling
i want it too
people love putting a label on me about
my god man you're just wired different
not [__] wired different dude
i'm thinking right now after i got past
my stuttering thing now i'm on a roll
i'm good now you know what i'm thinking
about right now i gotta [__] wake up
tomorrow and do the same [__] again i
gotta leave this [__] interview and
go stretch out for two and a half hours
i hate that [__]
but guess what it does though
i'm constantly callousing over my
victim's mentality that i once had
growing up
every day you have to do this [__]
because why when you stop doing it you
don't just maintain it if you stop
shooting a gun you're not gonna be a
great shot if you pick a gun up a year
from now the only way to keep from
getting rusty is to constantly owe that
[__] machine the machine is
this
you got to keep challenging it every day
the way that i think about that is very
very similar and i've got to imagine
this is one of the things that makes you
one of the most misunderstood humans on
the planet
is
to me driving that hard being that
hungry pushing long after everybody
stops
has nothing to do with anybody but
myself and what i
my drug of choice
is how i feel about myself when i'm by
myself
like nobody knows how
hard i work
and nobody's ever going to know not even
my wife is up enough to see how much i
really work right
but it doesn't matter because the way
that it makes me feel like in this
moment right now where i get to say ah
the world doesn't know i could be lying
but i would know and the way that i feel
right now because i know how true it is
that nobody's outworking me
[Music]
that to me is the juice and when people
understand that what you're fighting to
build the reason that i'm wearing a
shirt that says what would goggins do
the reason that i chant goggins like the
crowd before he started rolling the
camera was chanting goggins
the reason that's so resonant is because
they want to do something for themselves
they want to feel some kind of way about
themselves
[Music]
now that you've become like this big ass
speaker
what do people come up to you and ask
you the most
how do i do it
how am i able to do what i do on a daily
basis
you know how do i fight the demons
because they hear me speak and i'm very
raw and real
how do you
fight my insecurities all these things
and uh
they're there every day
the day every day like you said i'm
in a search for a feeling
i'm not in the search for a trophy i'm
not in search for love not so much for
more followers on instagram or social
media
when i started this journey
years ago
and i realized that i'm going to be
somebody and i'm searching for a feeling
a feeling of true victory for myself and
only myself the second i shut out the
whole world
and realize that one thing that i am in
this world alone
i'm fighting in this race by myself
yeah i'm all about people i'm all about
team i'm all about that [__]
but i'm really all about right now and
in my life
just like you said no one knows
the real truth about me how hard i
really go
i don't care if anybody knows
i don't want anybody to know
i'm an introvert i live an introverted
life and i love that about me it
that right there is my fuel
is i know that there's really no one out
there grinding like me and if they are
so be it
if i know about you i'll make sure that
up my gang
that's what the mentality is all about
my whole thing is a mentality thing like
i told you the last times on the show i
viewed myself as the weakest person on
the planet earth
my goal in life
was to
in my mind believe i'm the hardest man
alive
and that's why the whole thing is can't
hurt me
that's what it's about it's about
whatever you think you are you have to
make that dream a reality but that's
where
the hard part is
is making that dream reality that's
where the hard work comes that's where
people know how do you keep grinding
every day
you have to make those insecurities
those fears like when i was 300 pounds i
didn't have any drive i'm going to be a
navy seal what kind of stupid [__] is
that 300 pounds
there wasn't like a drive to go be a
navy seal i was an insecure lying kid
afraid
i had to
look in my insecurities
and in my fear and find drive in that
we're all looking for passion
passions all around you
you have a whole a whole [__] stack
of it all around you it's your
insecurities all that [__] you gotta
dive deep in that [__] all this it's all
in there
all the energy and fuel you need is
right in yourself
it's all there
you got a lot of stuff to do to overcome
and you know that's where i found it i
found it right there among insecurities
i found drive in my own insecurities
and that's that's the most powerful
thing in the world when you can find
drive in your own doubt
fear
insecurities
you become very unstoppable
you may have just changed me at a deep
and fundamental level i've never thought
about it like that so the number one
question i get asked is how do i find my
passion to which the answer is
very rudimentary and maybe ultimately
not as true and powerful as what you
just said
which is
there's another thing i need to tie this
to that you talk about in the book which
is people have lost touch with their
bodies
and you always tell people if you want
to change go do something physically
[__] demanding like go find yourself
in the suffering and in the pain of
doing something with your body yes
it is utterly fascinating to me it's
just hitting me now i'd never heard you
say that before so i i'll reserve final
judgment for round three when we come
back together but
the thought of you feel lost you feel
insecure you don't have a passion you
don't know what to do you're reaching
out to somebody you need that help you
know you could do more be more
and the answer is you in the last
interview we did you called it the bag
of [__] if i remember right yes you
reach in to the bag of [__] and start
changing those one by one
that may be the most extraordinary piece
of advice i've ever heard in fact i will
say the way it's hitting me right now
that's the single most extraordinary
piece of advice for self-transformation
i've ever heard
it's the truth
who is sitting here right now today
this is the real me obviously
but um
i'm gonna go kind of
i'm a very
philosophical person and i'm gonna go
there with you real quick
i believe in a higher power don't know
the name don't know where it's coming
from don't anything like that but i
believe that
this power
and visualizing real quick
let's say it's a man up there or a woman
whatever and they have a chart
and when you're born
they say david goggins
born february 17 1975 at 6 00 am
they write the chart down because they
can see everything they know exactly
what you're so [__] supposed to be
they know what you're supposed to be
you die you go to so-called heaven
you arrive at heaven i'm 300 pounds
i retired as an eco-lab guy which is
okay just a job whatever i go up there
and god
looks at me
and he shows me my chart
and my chart on there says you were
supposed to be a navy seal
you're supposed to weigh 185 pounds
you're supposed to be one of the
smartest people on the planet this this
all this you see this
and now you're in heaven you made it to
heaven but you're like god i was
supposed to live that life
i was supposed to live that life and
then you find out that the reason why
because we all think that if we pray on
it if we do this if we do that whatever
if we don't work we just whatever it
could magically happen for us
no
i believe that when i'm all said and
done with my whole job is to outwork the
chart
whatever the [__] chart says about me
the all-knowing power up there i want to
get up there and say him look at me and
say
i know everything
i didn't [__] see this
i didn't [__] see this i want to feel
that i want to get to the other end of
this [__] world
and however i'm being judged
whoever's judging me to look at me and
say i did not
[__] know i had you at 185 had you
did this but all this other [__] i was
riding as you were living it
i want to
i want to find more
all i can
and in that [__] sack of [__]
you have to dive in that
to find more
because if you're not willing to go in
there and face yourself
you're not gonna find anything
you're gonna live right here on surface
man right here on surface
so there is an ending to this world and
there is somewhere to go and there's a
judgment
you're going to get there and you might
see a chart
and that chart may tell you who the [__]
you should have been
and now you get to rest your life to
think about that man i could have lived
a much better life if i just
would have just suffered a little bit
more if i just would have went in that
[__] and realized i had so much more but
fear in the 40 and living here versus
living here
being afraid
stop me
so that's i i'm a big guy in visualizing
i'm a big guy in making a world it may
not exist
to me it does
and
i'm overpowering myself every day
and you got to find tools to do that
that's the tool that i use
so that's what it's all about
god damn
you said in the book that the only thing
to fear is the man staring back at you
in the mirror i thought that was
insanely powerful and seems tied to this
is there something else to that or is is
that what you're talking about that's
all i'm talking about like your
your biggest enemy
your biggest
the most important
conversation
you will ever have in your [__] life
is the one you have with yourself
you wake up with it
you walk around with it you go to bed
with it eventually you're going to act
on it
whether you're good or bad
you have to that's why the whole thing
about this book i have it's about you
it is about you
it's strictly about you finding who you
are so many people die
live a hundred years never [__] know
who they are
never know who they are you have to look
in that mirror and know this there's so
much more in here man
because i can literally right now be a
300 pound guy spraying for cockroaches
still to this day if i did not look in
that mirror and say there has to be more
to this
this can't be it
and then willing to go into it dive deep
into it and give all i have to find it
so that's what is that's what all that's
about
and all that you've done and all that
you've been through
help me understand when you were given
the you did not have a happy childhood i
think that would be very fair to say
when you were given the vfw award
recently and you were listening to
people that had impacted you and you got
to your mom
you couldn't even speak
yeah uh
it almost chokes me up now
um
so i got the vfw award for the for the
um americanism award
for military service and giving back
i'm as human as human can be
that's why what you see is what you get
um
at that moment when i was giving my
speech and i thank my uncle for being
there and i got to my mom
it wasn't just about her
it was
i i i know what she went through i know
what i went through and we got knocked
down so much
i had a moment in front of all these
great american heroes
where i had a chance it was like so fast
it went through me like like lightning
of i can't believe
i'm here
i can't believe i'm getting an award
like this
that
that kid who was in the fetal position
the majority of his life
and so much the fact that my body my hip
flexors are tight to this day
that even though i was standing erect
my mind was in the fetal position
and when i looked out amongst all those
people it was a sense of pride
that
i can't even
i can't even explain it's the moments of
three hell weeks it's the moments of
in that room by myself studying
for hours and hours and i was trying to
catch up with all the kids who are above
me
it's just those moments
like the real raw moments of life
that was like boom hit me
and we're gone but i was like i did that
i overcame that [__] you know it's like
this is power behind all that [__] and
that's the feeling
i was looking for in my life i found it
wasn't money it wasn't fame it wasn't
awards it was it was that feeling i have
right now
that feels i'm about to break down
but it's not of like oh my god i'm upset
it's like i worked
myself
so hard
that i turned
a person this [__] up
into this [__] right here not
off of reading a [__] book off a
theorist
off of going to work on myself and
saying i don't know how to do this
but i know that to get over there that
[__] side
i gotta grind myself into a [__] fine
power
and i did it
i did it all for sure will
and
very few people will know how that feels
very few
i love that more than you could possibly
know
before i ask my last question tell these
guys where they can find the book
so the book right now is called can't
hurt me
but by david goggins
and it's on amazon right now it's a raw
real book
it's not a five-step book
it's a real book about
developing habits
on how to overcome yourself
and i believe all of us humans have an
equation like you know pi is 3.14 that's
how you solve for that equation
every human being has a different
equation
and there's not like some cookie-cutter
book of hey read this book and you'll be
fixed no
you gotta figure out your own personal
equation
and once you figure out that equation
you now become a mathematical [__]
genius
about yourself
and that's what this book does it makes
you a [__] genius about who the [__]
you are
and then from there once you realize
3.14 is pi you can solve any [__]
equation in the world
that's what it's about
i love that all right my last question
what's the impact that you want to have
on the world
the impact i want to have in the world
is for everybody
to be able to face who they are i want
to have that kind of impact where you
can go on tv you can put your life on a
billboard you're not ashamed of who the
[__] you are you're not ashamed of what
life made you what you helped life make
you all that [__] all that bad [__]
that's now in this big pot that's
stirring
you're no longer ashamed of it
you realize we're all [__] up
stop judging yourself against other
[__] up people who have hidden it
better than you
that's all they've done they've mastered
[__] better than you have and now
they're flipping it back on you and
saying you're [__] up
i want you to realize that this world
life
is one
big head game
and once you learn to play the
[__] head game
it's no longer a game anymore at all
you can start living your life
i love that david thank you so much
[Applause]
buy this book
i read it it is extraordinary it is one
of the most amazing
manuals for how to change your life ever
and
just this interview i think could be
transformative for some people and the
book goes into so much more detail and
really reaches into you and shows you
how to do it in your own life he helps
you find that 3.14 for you so that you
can go out and do the things that you
need to do but the things that i hope
that you take away from him
be honest with yourself be raw but
understand that you can fix it stop
tolerating mediocrity you have to detest
mediocrity in your life and you have to
understand
the only way you're going to meet
yourself
is through pain and suffering and if you
can become a master
of suffering the things that you can do
with your life are truly unlimited you
can truly break free of all of the
limiting beliefs that you've put on
yourself your circumstances put on you
your family has put on you experts have
put on you whoever it is
you can get rid of all of that and
completely blow your own mind with what
you're capable of
and one day
you will have a shirt that instead of
saying what would goggins do
you'll be asking what would i do because
you're the right person to ask
and when you get to that point
nothing will ever be the same
get the book
all right guys if you haven't already be
sure to subscribe and until next time my
friends be legendary take care
david
[__] that was so [__] good
hey everybody thank you so much for
watching and being a part of this
community if you haven't already be sure
to subscribe you're going to get weekly
videos on building a growth mindset
cultivating grit and unlocking your full
potential